okay we'll now speak to Dr Tanya Hassan
who's a pediatric intensive care
physician she was last working in Gaza
in March and is joining us from am man
thanks very much for your time with us
on Al jazer so we've just seen an attack
on a field Hospital in central Gaza with
many children among the dead now the
doctors nurses all the medical staff
will be having to make some tough
decisions as to who to try to save with
the lack of space and lack of supplies
how difficult are those decisions to
make and what are your colleagues on the
ground at AA telling you about the
situation
yeah I think uh they're they're
extremely overwhelmed so I've been
getting brief messages saying they're
trying to get things under control but
struggling uh they said they received uh
upward of 40 uh Martyrs so people who've
been killed and over 120 injured mostly
women and children they described Terri
burn terrible Burns uh that uh were so
severe that they were actually scary to
look at horrifying Birds covering up to
100% of the body surface area these
patients will not survive they will gasp
some of them will survive for hours
maybe a day if it's uh significantly
less than 100% but they wouldn't survive
in any setting the problem when you have
a mass casualty of this scale is you
can't even provide compassionate end of
life care to relief uh the suffering
they said that they've been trying to
take hold of the situation but despite
this being now several hours ago that
they cannot um they said said that
reports they're getting from the
casualties that are coming in is that
this was a a triple strike operation
where uh the same uh vicinity of the
medical point the the field medical
point the clinic where a lot of the
cases that would otherwise be cared for
at ala are being cared for in in this
Clinic because ala is above capacity and
so they described there being over a
thousand people in the vicinity of that
uh clinic and school including patients
and their caregivers and that it was hit
three times and we've seen this over and
over again where um places where
civilians are highly concentrated are uh
struck by Israeli forces the rescue
workers go into to um to rescue any
survivors and then the same location is
hit uh recurrently after that taking not
only the the few survivors of the
initial uh strike but also anyone who
attempts to rescue them um and so they
received uh a number of uh casualties
over 100 injuries a number that any
healthare system would not be able to
cope with in terms of managing a mass
casualty one of my colleagues it's his
day off today uh they're working very
hard they've been working non-stop for
now over uh close to nine months and
these uh these Physicians generally will
work for 24 hours and then have have a
24 hour period off and this was his time
off and he was called back in because
the situation was so out of control so
he he just left me a voice message
describing the horrifying injuries that
they were seeing he said it's uh
terrible uh and completely out of
control control can you talk more about
the pardon me but can you just talk uh
perhaps a little bit more about the
types of injuries that your colleagues
are telling you that they're
seeing I think it depends on on on the
hospital so we have colleagues at noset
hospital we have colleagues at ala today
they're seeing air strike type injuries
so what I heard was horrifying um
amputations one of the nurses who's in
the Red Zone which is the ICU uh was
messaging me uh about 30 minutes ago and
I asked her what type of injury she's
saying she was seeing and she she said
three things she said brain matter out
amputation so brain matter out is when
the brain matter is actually visible
because the the head has been blown open
uh uh amputations and severe burns my
colleague who's at anlet hospital where
you're you're having more troops on the
ground Israeli troops on the ground said
uh in the last 24 hours they've received
uh multiple women with gunshot wounds to
the thighs and legs um and so a lot of
gunshot wounds a lot of uh tank
shelling uh and injuries that are
related to to troops being on the ground
so it really depends but uh and losted
Hospital seems to be reporting more
sniper attacks shootings executions of
that type and um but Anda reporting more
aerial bombardment that said both
institutions are reporting you know
majority women children elderly these
are I I did see a report saying that
several steps were taken to reduce the
possibility of Civilian casualties and
that's just not the reflection on the
ground I'm sorry this is clearly a
concentration of civilians that has been
not intentionally targeted once but
three times in a row with with an
overwhelming majority of uh women and
children casualties one woman and this
is a report I got about 20 minutes ago
from a colleague of mine who's with me
and Aman right now she's part of an an
NGO that's current a medical NGO that's
currently in Gaza and she shared the
story with me of one woman whose husband
was killed at the beginning of the war
the woman was pregnant at the time after
13 years of trying to conceive
eventually conceiving with invitro
fertilization with IVF her husband was
killed at the beginning of the war she
delivered her baby in her tent and today
she was killed the baby was removed from
the rubble alive and is now orphaned uh
having lost both his parents in two
separate air strikes actually I don't
know the the gender of the child but
both the baby's parents in two separate
air strike incidents I
mean I just I just want to add one thing
because I'm finding this extremely
frustrating coming on over and over and
over again as a humanitarian asked to
offer a humanitarian perspective and a
humanitarian solution to what is very
clearly on the ground genocide and you
can save a life we can spend hours
resuscitating the people impossibly
trying to keep these people alive the
majority of them will die under the
current circumstances and with the types
of injuries that my colleagues are
reporting and the area of the emergency
department the most critical area that
said we can spend hours trying to
resuscitate them but if they survive and
they have to go back and live in a quote
unquote humanitarian Zone that is
clearly a valid Target because as a
civilian you are a valid Target to
Israel in fact you're clearly targeted
Drass that's that's what I wanted to ask
you about in fact let me just uh jump in
there for just a moment because look we
see hospitals which are supposed to be
protected under intern law being
repeatedly targeted by Israel I mean how
do you make sense of the fact that there
are these repeated violations of
international law yet no
accountability the the reality is I'm a
physician I'm supposed to make sense of
the injury and I'm supposed to treat it
and I have spent my entire Adult Career
and life investing in my skill set so
that I will be very good at keeping
people people alive I'm not an
international humanitarian lawyer I'm
not an expert in human rights or
Warfare I can tell you that the
realities on the ground that we are
witnessing as people who are supposed to
keep people alive is every single means
of uh livelihood of keeping people alive
from uh water to food to shelter safety
uh healthc care resuscitate
resuscitative capacity Rescue Services
ambulances uh Waste Management systems
are targets of the Israeli strategy now
you can conclude what you would like the
icj seems to conclude its plausible
genocide the ICC has put out arrest
warrants everybody's making conclusions
that are based on International
humanitarian law for me on the ground as
a physician who was there and who is now
talking to my colleagues who are there I
can tell you that this looks like a
strategy to to to to to eliminate a
population I don't know what else you
could conclude logically but I'm not an
expert that can conclude anything
legally and the legal experts have also
spoken okay we'll have to leave it there
thank you so much Dr Tanya Hassan for
speaking make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer